Jeremy Gautama

=== Scenario #2: your company's customers' personal data ===

A. Identify the main ethical question or questions faced by the main 
character ("you") in the scenario. This will certainly include "what 
should you do?", but there may be other interesting questions to consider.
-----
    1) is it okay to sell people's data even though it is anonymous?
    2) what are the downsides of selling bundled anonymized location data?
    3) is it morally right to gain more money by compromising Beerz values?
    4) what are the alternatives if the CEO still goes with his selling data plan?

B. For each stakeholder (or category of stakeholders) in the scenario, 
identify the stakeholder's relevant rights.
-----
    CEO: Responsible to the employees, customers, and shareholders; 
            also needs to increase revenue of the company.
    CTO: Advise on the technological side of the company and make users data safe.
    Customers/users: Should know how their information is being used and processed.

C. List any information missing from the scenario that you would like to 
have to help you make better choices.
-----
    1) Specifically, how is the location data sold? How many data is considered bundled?
    2) Sell the data to who? The government? Advertisers? 
    3) CEO, CFO, the employees, the company's values and ethics on data privacy?
    4) Is it even necessary to sell the data? Is the company failing and trying to stay
        afloat?

D. Describe your possible actions, and discuss the likely consequences 
of those actions.
-----
    1) Discuss with the CFO about the downsides of selling bundled anonymized location data.
        I think the CFO will agree and try to persuade the CEO.
    2) Discuss with the CEO about the downsides. I think the CEO will ignore any of my
        concerns and will still go with his plan.
    3) Comply with the CEO's demands, but make it transparent to the users.


E. Discuss whether the ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct 
offers any relevant guidance.
-----
    They do. Especially:

        1.3 Be honest and trustworthy.
        1.6 Respect privacy.
        1.7 Honor confidentiality.
    
    It's very self-explanitory. It's basically what the CFO said during the interview: 
    "We're not going to participate in surveillance capitalism. We protect our users' 
    data while we have it, and we discard it when we're done with it."

F. Describe and justify your recommended action, as well as your answers 
to any other questions you presented in part A.
-----

    My first step is to bring up the downsides of selling bundled
    anonymized location data during the next meeting or when I accidentally meet the CEO 
    in the coffee room:
        1) it is against our principle of Not Participating in Surveillance Capitalism.
        2) there would be an anti-trust between us and the customer, 
            which could lead to declining sales instead of more revenue.
        3) personally speaking, it isn't worth the risk of losing customers and our 
            reputation.

    This means that selling anonymous data is lying to our customers
    about their data privacy and could lead to the company's downfall for greedily wanting
    more revenue.

    But if the CEO still insists on selling bundling anonymized location for Beerz 2.0 
    it is important to give notification for users that we'll be selling their location 
    data bundled and anonymously to not lie to them. I personally don't think that it is
    right to sell Beerz 1.1 data because they didn't consent and would just be an unethical
    (and possibly unlawful) cash grab.

    If none of that worked, make a Beerz competitor company with the CTO.